<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/51,G06F16/583,G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06T7/50,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GUANGDONG OPPO MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Wen, Zhaoyan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62010580
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Image processing method and apparatus, and electronic device
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to an image processing method and apparatus, and an electronic device. The method includes: acquiring a photo album obtained from face clustering; collecting face information of respective images in the photo album, and acquiring a face parameter of each image according to the face information; selecting a cover image according to the face parameter of each image; and taking a face-region image from the cover image, and setting the face-region image as a cover of the photo album.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image processing method, comprising: acquiring a photo album obtained from face clustering; collecting face information of respective images in the photo album, and acquiring a face parameter of each image according to the face information; selecting a cover image according to the face parameter of each image; and taking a face-region image from the cover image, and setting the face-region image as a cover of the photo album; wherein selecting the cover image according to the face parameter of each image comprises: performing calculation on the face parameter of each image in a preset way, to obtain a cover score of each image; selecting the image with a highest cover score as the cover image; wherein selecting the image with the highest cover score as the cover image comprises: acquiring a source of each image; and selecting the image with the highest cover score in images coming from a preset source as the cover image.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein selecting the image with the highest cover score as the cover image comprises: acquiring the number of faces contained in each image; determining single-person images according to the number of faces; and selecting the single-person image with the highest cover score as the cover image.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein selecting the image with the highest cover score as the cover image further comprises: when there is no single-person image in the photo album, determining images including two faces from the photo album; and selecting the image with the highest cover score from the images including two faces as the cover image.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the face information comprises face feature points, and the face parameter comprises a face turning angle; acquiring the face parameter of each image according to the face information comprises: acquiring coordinate values of the face feature points; determining distances and angles between the face feature points; and determining the face turning angle according to the distances and the angles.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the face parameter comprises a face ratio; acquiring the face parameter of each image according to the face information comprises: determining a face region of the image according to the face information; and calculating a ratio of an area of the face region to an area of the image to obtain the face ratio.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein calculating the face ratio comprises: when there is more than one face in the image, subtracting an area occupied faces other than a face corresponding to the photo album from the face region to obtain a remaining area; and calculating a ratio of the remaining area to the area of the image to obtain the face ratio.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein collecting face information of respective images in the photo album comprises: acquiring image identifications of images in the photo album; extracting face information corresponding to the image identifications from a face database, the face database being stored with face recognition results of images, the face recognition results including the face information.
8. An image processing apparatus, comprising: a processor; and a memory, configured to store instructions executable by the processor, wherein the processor is configured to run a program corresponding to the instructions by reading the instructions stored in the memory, so as to perform: acquiring a photo album obtained from face clustering; collecting face information of each image in the photo album; acquiring a face parameter of each image according to the face information; selecting a cover image according to the face parameter of each image; taking a face-region image from the cover image, and setting the face-region image as a cover of the photo album; wherein the processor is configured to: perform calculation on the face parameter of each image in a preset way, to obtain a cover score of each image; and select the image with a highest cover score as the cover image; and wherein the processor is configured to: acquire a source of each image; and select the image with the highest cover score in images coming from a preset source as the cover image.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to: acquire the number of faces contained in each image; determine single-person images according to the number of faces; and select the single-person image with the highest cover score as the cover image.
10. The apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: when there is no single-person image in the photo album, determine images including two faces from the photo album; and select the image with the highest cover score from the images including two faces as the cover image.
11. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the face information comprises face feature points, and the face parameter comprises a face turning angle; the processor is configured to: acquire coordinate values of the face feature points; determine distances and angles between the face feature points; and determine the face turning angle according to the distances and the angles.
12. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the face parameter comprises a face ratio; the processor is configured to: determine a face region of the image according to the face information; and calculate a ratio of an area of the face region to an area of the image to obtain the face ratio.
13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to: when there is more than one face in the image, subtract an area occupied faces other than a face corresponding to the photo album from the face region to obtain a remaining area; and calculate a ratio of the remaining area to the area of the image to obtain the face ratio.
14. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to: acquire image identifications of images in the photo album; extract face information corresponding to the image identifications from a face database, the face database being stored with face recognition results of images, the face recognition results including the face information.
15. An electronic device, comprising a processor, a memory, a display screen and an input device connected via a system bus, wherein the memory is stored with computer programs that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to implement an image processing method, the image processing method comprising: acquiring a photo album obtained from face clustering; collecting face information of respective images in the photo album, and acquiring a face parameter of each image according to the face information; selecting a cover image according to the face parameter of each image; and taking a face-region image from the cover image, and setting the face-region image as a cover of the photo album; wherein selecting the cover image according to the face parameter of each image comprises: performing calculation on the face parameter of each image in a preset way, to obtain a cover score of each image; and selecting the image with a highest cover score as the cover image; and wherein selecting the image with the highest cover score as the cover image comprises: acquiring a source of each image; and selecting the image with the highest cover score in images coming from a preset source as the cover image.
16. The electronic device according to claim 15, wherein the electronic device comprises at least one of a mobile phone, a tablet computer, a personal digital assistant and a wearable device.
</claims>
</document>
