<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/0481,G06T19/00,H04N13/00,H04N13/04,H04N13/117,H04N13/178,H04N13/344,H04N13/398
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARTINEAU, JUSTIN
CURREY, JONATHAN J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60267975
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Content navigation
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment provides a method comprising receiving a piece of content and salient moments data for the piece of content. The method further comprises, based on the salient moments data, determining a first path for a viewport for the piece of content. The method further comprises displaying the viewport on a display device. Movement of the viewport is based on the first path during playback of the piece of content. The method further comprises generating an augmentation for a salient moment occurring in the piece of content, and presenting the augmentation in the viewport during a portion of the playback. The augmentation comprises an interactive hint for guiding the viewport to the salient moment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving a piece of content and salient data for the piece of content; based on the salient data, determining a first path for a viewport for the piece of content, wherein the first path for the viewport includes different salient events occurring in the piece of content at different times during playback of the piece of content; providing the viewport on a display device, wherein movement of the viewport is based on the first path for the viewport and the salient data during the playback; detecting an additional salient event in the piece of content that is not included in the first path for the viewport; and providing an indication for the additional salient event in the viewport during the playback.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the salient data identifies each salient event in the piece of content, and the salient data indicates, for each salient event in the piece of content, a corresponding point location of the salient event in the piece of content and a corresponding time at which the salient event occurs during the playback.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the salient data further indicates, for each salient event in the piece of content, a corresponding type of the salient event and a corresponding strength value of the salient event.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first path for the viewport controls the movement of the viewport to put the different salient events in a view of the viewport at the different times during the playback.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting one or more salient events in the piece of content based on at least one of the following: visual data of the piece of content, audio data of the piece of content, or content consumption experience data for the piece of content; wherein the salient data is indicative of each salient event detected.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting one or more salient events in the piece of content based on at least one of the following: face recognition, facial emotion recognition, object recognition, motion recognition, or metadata of the piece of content; wherein the salient data is indicative of each salient event detected.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting user interaction with the indication, wherein the indication comprises an interactive hint; and in response to detecting the user interaction: adapting the first path for the viewport to a second path for the viewport based on the user interaction, wherein the second path for the viewport includes the additional salient event; and providing an updated viewport for the piece of content on the display device, wherein movement of the updated viewport is based on the second path for the viewport and the salient data during the playback, and the second path for the viewport controls the movement of the updated viewport to put the additional salient event in a view of the updated viewport.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: changing a weight assigned to the additional salient event and one or more other salient events in the piece of content having the same type as the additional salient event.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the second path for the viewport includes one or more other salient events in the piece of content having the same type as the additional salient event.
10. A system, comprising: at least one processor; and a non-transitory processor-readable memory device storing instructions that when executed by the at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform operations including: receiving a piece of content and salient data for the piece of content; based on the salient data, determining a first path for a viewport for the piece of content, wherein the first path for the viewport includes different salient events occurring in the piece of content at different times during playback of the piece of content; providing the viewport on a display device, wherein movement of the viewport is based on the first path for the viewport and the salient data during the playback; detecting an additional salient event in the piece of content that is not included in the first path for the viewport; and providing an indication for the additional salient event in the viewport during the playback.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the salient data identifies each salient event in the piece of content, and the salient data indicates, for each salient event in the piece of content, a corresponding point location of the salient event in the piece of content and a corresponding time at which the salient event occurs during the playback.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the salient data further indicates, for each salient event in the piece of content, a corresponding type of the salient event and a corresponding strength value of the salient event.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the salient data is generated offline on a server.
14. The system of claim 10, the operations further comprising: detecting one or more salient events in the piece of content based on at least one of the following: visual data of the piece of content, audio data of the piece of content, or content consumption experience data for the piece of content; wherein the salient data is indicative of each salient event detected.
15. The system of claim 10, the operations further comprising: detecting one or more salient events in the piece of content based on at least one of the following: face recognition, facial emotion recognition, object recognition, motion recognition, or metadata of the piece of content; wherein the salient data is indicative of each salient event detected.
16. The system of claim 10, the operations further comprising: detecting user interaction with the indication, wherein the indication comprises an interactive hint; and in response to detecting the user interaction: adapting the first path for the viewport to a second path for the viewport based on the user interaction, wherein the second path for the viewport includes the additional salient event; and providing an updated viewport for the piece of content on the display device, wherein movement of the updated viewport is based on the second path for the viewport and the salient data during the playback, and the second path for the viewport controls the movement of the updated viewport to put the additional salient event in a view of the updated viewport.
17. The system of claim 16, the operations further comprising: changing a weight assigned to the additional salient event and one or more other salient events in the piece of content having the same type as the additional salient event.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the second path for the viewport includes one or more other salient events in the piece of content having the same type as the additional salient event.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium including instructions to perform a method comprising: receiving a piece of content and salient data for the piece of content; based on the salient data, determining a first path for a viewport for the piece of content, wherein the first path for the viewport includes different salient events occurring in the piece of content at different times during playback of the piece of content; providing the viewport on a display device, wherein movement of the viewport is based on the first path for the viewport and the salient data during the playback; detecting an additional salient event in the piece of content that is not included in the first path for the viewport; and providing an indication for the additional salient event in the viewport during the playback.
20. The computer readable storage medium of claim 19, the method further comprising: detecting user interaction with the indication, wherein the indication comprises an interactive hint; and in response to detecting the user interaction: adapting the first path for the viewport to a second path for the viewport based on the user interaction, wherein the second path for the viewport includes the additional salient event; and providing an updated viewport for the piece of content on the display device, wherein movement of the updated viewport is based on the second path for the viewport and the salient data during the playback, and the second path for the viewport controls the movement of the updated viewport to put the additional salient event in a view of the updated viewport.
</claims>
</document>
