<document>

<filing_date>
2015-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHIU, YI-JEN
CHEN YURONG
LI JIANGUO
CHEN KE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57006454
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Low-cost face recognition using Gaussian receptive field features
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems may provide for facial recognition of at least one input image utilizing hierarchical feature learning and pair-wise classification. Receptive field theory may be used on the input image to generate a pre-processed multi-channel image. Channels in the pre-processed image may be activated based on the amount of feature rich details within the channels. Similarly, local patches may be activated based on the discriminant features within the local patches. Features may be extracted from the local patches and the most discriminant features may be selected in order to perform feature matching on pair sets. The system may utilize patch feature pooling, pair-wise matching, and large-scale training in order to quickly and accurately perform facial recognition at a low cost for both system memory and computation.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system comprising: a memory device to store an input image; a processor including, an image input interface to receive the input image, a pre-processor to model the input image to yield a multi-channel image, a feature extractor to extract a set of features based on the multi-channel image, a feature selector to select one or more features from the set of features of the multi-channel image, wherein the one or more features are selected based on an ability to differentiate features, a feature matcher to match the one or more features to a learned feature set, and a similarity detector to determine whether the one or more features meet a pre-defined similarity threshold.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the pre-processor further is to activate one or more channels of the multi-channel image to yield one or more activated channels.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more activated channels are to be determined based on their ability to differentiate features.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the pre-processor further is to activate one or more local patches of the one or more activated channels.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more local patches are to be determined based on their ability to differentiate features.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the feature matcher further is to utilize a large-scale data learning process to perform the feature matching.
7. An apparatus comprising: an image input interface to receive an input image; a pre-processor to model the input image to yield a multi-channel image; a feature extractor to extract a set of features based on the multi-channel image; a feature selector to select one or more features from the set of features of the multi-channel image, wherein the one or more features are selected based on an ability to differentiate features; a feature matcher to match the one or more features to a learned feature set; and a similarity detector to determine whether the one or more features meet a pre-defined similarity threshold.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the pre-processor further is to activate one or more channels of the multi-channel image to yield one or more activated channels.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the one or more activated channels are to be determined based on their ability to differentiate features.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the pre-processor further is to activate one or more local patches of the one or more activated channels.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the one or more local patches are to be determined based on their ability to differentiate features.
12. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the feature matcher further is to utilize a large-scale data learning process to perform the feature matching.
13. A method comprising: modeling an input image to yield a multi-channel image; extracting a set of features based on the multi-channel image; selecting one or more features from the set of features of the multi-channel image, wherein the one or more features are selected based on an ability to differentiate features; matching the one or more features to a learned feature set; and determining whether the one or more features meet a pre-defined similarity threshold.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein modeling the input image further is to include activating one or more channels of the multi-channel image to yield one or more activated channels.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more activated channels are to be determined based on their ability to differentiate features.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein extracting features of the input image further is to include activating one or more local patches of the one or more activated channels.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more local patches are to be determined based on their ability to differentiate features.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the feature matcher utilizes a large-scale data learning process to perform the feature matching.
19. At least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising a set of instructions which, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to: model an input image to yield a multi-channel image, extract a set of features based on the multi-channel image, select one or more features from the set of features of the multi-channel image, wherein the features are selected based on an ability to differentiate features, match the one or more features to a learned feature set, and determine whether the one or more features meet a pre-defined similarity threshold.
20. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause a computing device to activate one or more channels of the multi-channel image to yield one or more activated channels.
21. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause a computing device to determine the one or more activated channels based on their ability to differentiate features.
22. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein extracting features of the input image is to further include activating one or more local patches of the one or more activated channels.
23. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 22, wherein the one or more local patches are to be determined based on their ability to differentiate features.
24. The at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the feature matcher further is to utilize a large-scale data learning process to perform the feature matching.
25. An apparatus comprising: means for modeling an input image to yield a multi-channel image, means for extracting a set of features based on the multi-channel image, means for selecting one or more features from the set of features of the multi-channel image, wherein the one or more features are selected based on an ability to differentiate features, means for matching the one or more features to a learned feature set, and means for determining whether the one or more features meet a pre-defined similarity threshold.
</claims>
</document>
