<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16,G06F21/31,G06F21/32,G06F3/01,G06K9/00,H04L29/06,H04N5/232,H04W12/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG LIANG
YUAN LINA
LIN, LUYI
LI, YIFENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61761396
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method of controlling a terminal based on motion of the terminal, terminal therefore, and storage medium
</title>

<abstract>
A method for controlling a terminal is provided. The terminal includes a capturing apparatus and at least one processor. An image is acquired by the capturing apparatus. A motion parameter of the terminal is obtained. Image processing on the acquired image is controlled to be performed based on the motion parameter being equal to or less than a preset parameter threshold, and skipped based on the motion parameter being greater than the preset parameter threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling a terminal, the terminal comprising a capturing apparatus and at least one processor, the method comprising: acquiring, by the capturing apparatus, an image; obtaining, by the at least one processor, a motion parameter of the terminal, the motion parameter comprising at least one of a motion frequency or a motion time, and two or more parameters from among an acceleration, an angular velocity, a motion amplitude, the motion frequency, and the motion time; transmitting, by the at least one processor, a parameter threshold obtaining request to a data management server, the parameter threshold obtaining request comprising configuration information of the terminal; receiving corresponding preset thresholds that correspond to the configuration information in response to the parameter threshold obtaining request; comparing the two or more parameters with the corresponding preset thresholds; and controlling, by the at least one processor, not to perform image processing on the acquired image based on at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than a corresponding preset threshold or based on the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being respectively greater than the corresponding preset thresholds, wherein the acquiring comprises acquiring the image in real time, and the obtaining comprises obtaining the motion parameter of the terminal in real time, the method further comprising: in response to the at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than the corresponding preset threshold, obtaining the motion parameter of the terminal again; and in response to the two or more parameters of the motion parameter obtained at a latest time being less than or equal to the corresponding preset thresholds, performing the image processing on the image acquired at the latest time.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the acquiring comprises: controlling, by the at least one processor, to turn on the capturing apparatus based on a face recognition instruction; and acquiring, by the capturing apparatus, a face image when the capturing apparatus is turned on.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the controlling not to perform the image processing comprises: skipping performing face recognition on the acquired face image based on the at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than the corresponding preset threshold or based on the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being respectively greater than the corresponding preset thresholds.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the obtaining comprises at least one of: obtaining the acceleration of the terminal by using an acceleration sensor; or obtaining the angular velocity of the terminal by using a gyro sensor.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the transmitting comprises: transmitting the parameter threshold obtaining request to the data management server according to a preset time period.
6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: generating prompt information based on the at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than the corresponding preset threshold, the prompt information being used for prompting the terminal to stop moving.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the motion parameter comprises the motion frequency and the motion time.
8. A terminal comprising: a capturing apparatus; at least one memory configured to store program code; and at least one processor configured to access the at least one memory and operate according to the program code, the program code comprising: motion parameter obtaining code configured to cause the at least one processor to acquire an image by using the capturing apparatus and obtain a motion parameter of the terminal, the motion parameter comprising at least one of a motion frequency or a motion time, and two or more parameters from among an acceleration, an angular velocity, a motion amplitude, the motion frequency, and the motion time; request transmitting code configured to cause the at least one processor to transmit a parameter threshold obtaining request to a data management server, the parameter threshold obtaining request comprising configuration information of the terminal; parameter threshold receiving code configured to cause the at least one processor to receive corresponding preset thresholds that correspond to the configuration information in response to the parameter threshold obtaining request; comparing code configured to cause the at least one processor to compare the two or more parameters with the corresponding preset thresholds; and control code configured to cause the at least one processor not to perform image processing on the acquired image based on at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than a corresponding preset threshold or based on the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being respectively greater than the corresponding preset thresholds, wherein the motion parameter obtaining code causes the at least one processor to: acquire the image in real time and obtain the motion parameter of the terminal in real time, and in response to the at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than the corresponding preset threshold, obtain the motion parameter of the terminal again, and wherein the control code causes the at least one processor to, in response to the two or more parameters of the motion parameter obtained at a latest time being less than or equal to the corresponding preset thresholds, perform the image processing on the image acquired at the latest time.
9. The terminal according to claim 8, wherein the program code further comprises face instruction receiving code configured to cause the at least one processor to receive a face recognition instruction, wherein the motion parameter obtaining code causes the at least one processor to control, according to the face recognition instruction, the capturing apparatus to turn on, and acquire a face image by using the capturing apparatus when the capturing apparatus is turned on; and wherein the control code causes the at least one processor to skip performing face recognition on the acquired face image based on the at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than the corresponding preset threshold or based on the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being respectively greater than the corresponding preset thresholds.
10. The terminal according to claim 8, wherein the request transmitting code causes the at least one processor to transmit the parameter threshold obtaining request to the data management server according to a preset time period.
11. The terminal according to claim 8, wherein the program code further comprises: prompt information generation code configured to cause the at least one processor to generate prompt information based on at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than the corresponding preset threshold, the prompt information being used for prompting the terminal to stop moving.
12. The terminal according to claim 8, wherein the motion parameter comprises the motion frequency and the motion time.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium, storing a machine instruction, which, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform: obtaining an image acquired by a capturing apparatus; obtaining a motion parameter of a terminal, the terminal comprising the capturing apparatus, the motion parameter comprising at least one of a motion frequency or a motion time, and two or more parameters from among an acceleration, an angular velocity, a motion amplitude, the motion frequency, and the motion time; transmitting a parameter threshold obtaining request to a data management server, the parameter threshold obtaining request comprising configuration information of the terminal; receiving corresponding preset thresholds that correspond to the configuration information in response to the parameter threshold obtaining request; comparing the two or more parameters with the corresponding preset thresholds; and controlling not to perform image processing on an acquired image based on at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than a corresponding preset threshold or based on the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being respectively greater than the corresponding preset thresholds, wherein the acquiring comprises acquiring the image in real time, and the obtaining comprises obtaining the motion parameter of the terminal in real time, the method further comprising: in response to the at least one of the two or more parameters of the motion parameter being greater than the corresponding preset threshold, obtaining the motion parameter of the terminal again; and in response to the two or more parameters of the motion parameter obtained at a latest time being less than or equal to the corresponding preset thresholds, performing the image processing on the image acquired at the latest time.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 13, wherein the acquired image is a face image and the image processing comprises performing face recognition.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 13, wherein the obtaining the motion parameter comprises at least one of: obtaining the acceleration of the terminal by using an acceleration sensor; or obtaining the angular velocity of the terminal by using a gyro sensor.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium according to claim 13, wherein the motion parameter comprises the motion frequency and the motion time.
</claims>
</document>
