<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G10L17/00,H04N21/422,H04N21/4223,H04N21/442,H04N21/454,H04N21/466,H04N21/482,H04N21/488
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
ACHAMOLA, SRAVAN KUMAR REDDY
ANNAM, VENKATA SUBBARAO
DEPA, TEJASREE
GUPTA, ANSHUL
KAR, SIDHARTHA KUMAR
KEMPANNA NATARAJ, VITESH
KOONA, KIRAN
MANDAVILLI, RAVI TEJA
PANDEY, NAMAN
PANUGANTI, CHAITANYA
PATTED, PAVAN KUMAR
SHETTY, PRATHVIRAJ
VENIGALLA, LAKSHMANA RAO
VENUGOPAL, MANOJ KANNAN
YADDULA, VENKATA RAMANA REDDY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66816600
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Intelligent routing of notifications related to media programming
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure provides systems, methods and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on computer storage media for intelligent routing of notifications related to media programming. In one aspect, a smart television (TV) can be implemented to track a user's TV watching behavior, and anticipate programming based on that behavior. In some other aspects, the smart TV can be implemented to detect a user's presence, and based on that detection, can automatically change the TV channel to media programming analyzed to be desirable to the user. In some further aspects, the smart TV can be implemented to transmit notification instructions to electronic devices within a network in an attempt to alert the user to upcoming media programming. Additionally, the smart TV can be implemented to transmit detection instructions to the electronic devices within the network, whereby the electronic devices attempt to detect a user's presence through voice or facial recognition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a smart television (TV), an indication of upcoming media programming, wherein the upcoming media programming is based on a user profile; identifying one or more devices in communication with the smart TV, each of the one or more devices including at least one of a microphone or a camera; instructing at least one identified device to detect audio signals using its respective microphone, or to detect visual signals using its respective camera; selecting at least one device of the one or more devices based on the detected audio signal or detected visual signal; and providing instructions to the selected device to output a notification related to the upcoming media programming.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the upcoming media programming is one of a live television program, a recorded television program, a broadcast television program, or an application-provided program.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the first device based on the detected audio signal includes recognizing a voice.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising determining a distance to the recognized voice, and wherein selecting the first device is further based on the determined distance.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the first device based on the detected visual signals includes recognizing a face.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein recognizing the face includes a face recognition technique.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising presenting, on the smart TV, the upcoming media programming in a favorite channel list.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: obtaining media programming viewing data, wherein the media programming viewing data includes at least one of a historical time and a historical date that one or more media programs were viewed; obtaining at least one of a current time and a current date; processing the media programming viewing data to determine a probability of the one or more media programs being viewed based on at least one of the current time and the current date; and presenting the favorite channel list based on the determined probability of the one or more media programs being viewed.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein processing the media programming viewing data includes employing a neural network model.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein employing the neural network model comprises: determining a duration that the one or more media programs were viewed for each of the at least one of the historical time and the historical date; setting a threshold time duration; comparing the determined duration to the threshold time duration; and filtering out the one or more media programs viewed below the threshold time duration.
11. A smart television (TV), comprising: a network interface; a non-transitory computer-readable medium; and a processor in communication with the network interface, and the non-transitory computer-readable medium, and capable of executing processor-executable program code stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium, to cause the smart TV to: receive an indication of upcoming media programming, wherein the upcoming media programming is based on a user profile; identify one or more devices in communication with the smart TV, each of the one or more devices including at least one of a microphone or a camera; instruct at least one identified device to detect audio signals using its respective microphone, or to detect visual signals using its respective camera; select at least one device of the one or more devices based on the detected audio signal or detected visual signal; and provide instructions to the selected device to output a notification related to the upcoming media programming.
12. The smart TV of claim 11, wherein selecting the first device based on the detected audio signal includes recognizing a voice.
13. The smart TV of claim 12, wherein the processor is further capable of executing processor-executable program code to: determine a distance to the recognized voice, and wherein selecting the first device is further based on the determined distance.
14. The smart TV of claim 11, wherein selecting the first device based on the detected visual signals includes detecting the presence of a user.
15. The smart TV of claim 14, wherein detecting the presence of the user includes employing one or more of a camera, a microphone, or a fingerprint sensor associated with at least one of the smart TV a mobile device, a smartphone, a laptop computer, a tablet device, a wearable device, an Internet of Things (IoT) device, an Internet of Everything (IoE) device, an IoT hub, or an IoE hub.
16. A smart television (TV), comprising: means for receiving an indication of upcoming media programming, wherein the upcoming media programming is based on a user profile; means for identifying one or more devices in communication with the smart TV, each of the one or more devices including at least one of a microphone or a camera; means for instructing at least one identified device to detect audio signals using its respective microphone, or to detect visual signals using its respective camera; means for selecting at least one device of the one or more devices based on the detected audio signal or detected visual signal; and means for providing instructions to the selected device to output a notification related to the upcoming media programming.
17. The smart TV of claim 16, wherein the one or more devices includes at least one of a mobile device, a smartphone, a laptop computer, a tablet device, a wearable device, an Internet of Things (IoT) device, an Internet of Everything (IoE) device, an IoT hub, an IoE hub, or another smart TV.
18. The smart TV of claim 16, wherein the upcoming media programming is one of a live television program, a recorded television program, a broadcast television program, or an application-provided program.
19. The smart TV of claim 16, wherein the notification includes at least one of a push message, a SMS message, a Way2SMS message, an audio alert, an audio message, or an email message.
20. The smart TV of claim 16, further comprising presenting the upcoming media programming in a favorite channel list.
21. The smart TV of claim 20, further comprising: means for obtaining media programming viewing data, wherein the media programming viewing data includes at least one of a historical time and a historical date that one or more media programs were viewed on the smart TV; means for obtaining at least one of a current time and a current date; means for processing the media programming viewing data to determine a probability of the one or more media programs being viewed on the smart TV based on at least one of the current time and the current date; and means for presenting the favorite channel list based on the determined probability of the one or more media programs being viewed.
22. The smart TV of claim 21, wherein the means for processing the media programming viewing data includes employing a neural network model.
23. The smart TV of claim 22, wherein employing the neural network model comprises: determining a duration that the one or more media programs were viewed on the smart TV for each of the at least one of the historical time and the historical date; setting a threshold time duration; comparing the determined duration to the threshold time duration; and filtering out the one or more media programs viewed below the threshold time duration.
24. The smart TV of claim 21, further comprising: means for adjusting at least one of a volume or a brightness of the smart TV, wherein the adjusting is based on at least one of the historical time and the historical date.
25. The smart TV of claim 21, further comprising means for restricting access to one or more media programs.
26. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising processor-executable program code configured to cause a processor of a smart television (TV) to: receive an indication of upcoming media programming, wherein the upcoming media programming is based on a user profile; identify one or more devices in communication with the smart TV, each of the one or more devices including at least one of a microphone or a camera; instruct at least one identified device to detect audio signals using its respective microphone, or to detect visual signals using its respective camera; select at least one device of the one or more devices based on the detected audio signal or detected visual signal; and provide instructions to the selected device to output a notification related to the upcoming media programming.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 26, wherein selecting the first device based on the detected audio signal includes recognizing a voice.
28. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 27, wherein the processor is further capable of executing processor-executable program code to: determine a distance to the recognized voice, and wherein selecting the first device is further based on the determined distance.
29. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 26, wherein selecting the first device based on the detected visual signals includes recognizing a face.
30. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 29, wherein recognizing the face includes a face recognition technique.
</claims>
</document>
