<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F21/62,H04L12/08,H04L29/06,H04W12/00,H04W12/08,H04W4/02,H04W4/021,H04W4/029,H04W4/14,H04W4/21,H04W4/33,H04W4/80,H04W48/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
DIACETIS, STEPHEN P.
DEL AMO CASADO, CRISTINA
KAY, JONATHAN MATTHEW
HOOVER, DAVID MAHLON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59791153
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Location-based access control of secured resources
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques described herein provide location-based access control to secured resources. Generally described, configurations disclosed herein enable a system to dynamically modify access to secured resources based on one or more location-related actions. For example, techniques disclosed herein can enable a computing system to control access to resources such as computing devices, display devices, secured locations, and secured data. In some configurations, the techniques disclosed herein can enable controlled access to secured resources based, at least in part, on an invitation associated with a location and positioning data indicating a location of a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, at a computing device, a meeting invitation identifying a location and at least one invitee, the meeting invitation configured to provide the at least one invitee with physical access to the location, wherein the meeting invitation causes a system to control a pathway allowing physical access to the location; providing, based on the meeting invitation, the at least one invitee with physical access to the location by controlling the pathway allowing the at least one invitee to physically access the location through the pathway in response to positioning data indicating that the at least one invitee is at a predetermined location near the location wherein the positioning data is based in part on a face recognition camera system identifying the at least one invitee; receiving the positioning data from the face recognition camera system identifying the at least one invitee, wherein the positioning data indicates a pattern of movement of the at least one invitee; determining that the pattern of movement indicates that the at least one invitee has exited the location; and revoking physical access to the location identified in the meeting invitation by controlling the pathway to restrict the at least one invitee identified in the meeting invitation from physical access to the location through the pathway, in response to determining that the pattern of movement indicates that the at least one invitee has exited the location.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining that the at least one invitee has exited the location comprises determining that the at least one invitee has passed through an egress associated with the location in a predetermined direction.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining that the at least one invitee has exited the location comprises determining that the at least one invitee has moved through an area in a predetermined direction.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the positioning data indicates a second pattern of movement of the at least one invitee and, wherein access to secured data associated with the location is provided in response to detecting the second pattern of movement.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: collating secured data and public data to generate resource data; and communicating the resource data to a client computing device associated with the at least one invitee when access of the location is provided.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the positioning data indicates that the at least one invitee is at the predetermined location when the at least one invitee passes through the predetermined location.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the positioning data indicates that the at least one invitee is at the predetermined location when the at least one invitee passes through the predetermined location near the location in a predetermined direction.
8. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory in communication with the processor, the memory having computer-readable instructions stored thereupon that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive a meeting invitation indicating a location and an identity, the meeting invitation configured to provide at least one invitee with physical access to the location, wherein the meeting invitation causes the system to control a pathway allowing physical access to the location; provide the at least one invitee associated with the identity access to the location by controlling the pathway allowing the at least one invitee to physically access the location through the pathway in response to positioning data indicating that the at least one invitee is at a predetermined location near the location, wherein the positioning data is based in part on a face recognition camera system identifying the at least one invitee; receive the positioning data from the face recognition camera system identifying the at least one invitee, wherein the positioning data indicates a pattern of movement of the at least one invitee; determine that the pattern of movement indicates that the at least one invitee has exited the location; and revoke physical access to the location identified in the meeting invitation by controlling the pathway to restrict the at least one invitee identified in the meeting invitation from physical access to the location through the pathway, in response to determining that the pattern of movement indicates that the at least one invitee has exited the location.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein determining that the at least one invitee has exited the location comprises determining that the at least one invitee has passed through an egress associated with the location.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein determining that the at least one invitee has exited the location comprises determining that the at least one invitee has moved through an area in a predetermined direction.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the positioning data indicates a second pattern of movement of the at least one invitee and wherein access to secured data associated with the location is provided in response to detecting the second pattern of movement.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: collate secured data and public data to generate resource data; and communicate the resource data to a client computing device associated with the at least one invitee when access of the location is provided.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by one or more processors of a computing device, cause the one or more processors of the computing device to: receive a meeting invitation indicating a location and an identity, the meeting invitation configured to provide at least one invitee with physical access to the location, wherein the meeting invitation causes a system to control a pathway allowing physical access to the location; provide the at least one invitee associated with the identity access to the location by controlling the pathway allowing the at least one invitee to physically access the location through the pathway in response to positioning data indicating that the at least one invitee is at a predetermined location near the location, wherein the positioning data is based in part on a face recognition camera system identifying the at least one invitee; receive the positioning data from the face recognition camera system identifying the at least one invitee, wherein the positioning data indicates a pattern of movement of the at least one invitee; determine that the pattern of movement indicates that the at least one invitee has exited the location; and revoke physical access to the location identified in the meeting invitation by controlling the pathway to restrict the at least one invitee identified in the meeting invitation from physical access to the location through the pathway, in response to determining that the pattern of movement indicates that the at least one invitee has exited the location.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein determining that the at least one invitee has exited the location comprises determining that the at least one invitee has passed through an egress associated with the location.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the positioning data indicates a second pattern of movement of the at least one invitee and wherein access to secured data associated with the location is provided in response to detecting the second pattern of movement.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to: collate secured data and public data to generate resource data; and communicate the resource data to a client computing device associated with the at least one invitee when access of the location is provided.
</claims>
</document>
