<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-11-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,H04L12/58,H04N5/232,H04N5/262
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG ZHENWEI
ZHANG, XINLEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58762886
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD AND APPARATUS, AND COMPUTER STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An image processing method performed at a computing device includes: identifying, using face recognition, one or more faces, each face corresponding to a respective person captured in a first image; for each identified face: extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image; and selecting, from a plurality of image tiles, a first image tile that matches the face of the corresponding person in the first image in accordance with a predefined correspondence between the set of profile parameters of the corresponding person and a set of pre-stored description parameters of the first image tile; generating a second image by covering the faces of respective persons in the first image with their corresponding first image tiles; and sharing the first image and the second image in a predefined order via a group chat session.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image information processing method performed at a computing device having one or more processors and memory storing a plurality of programs to be executed by the one or more processors, the method comprising: identifying, using face recognition, one or more faces, each face corresponding to a respective person captured in a first image; for each identified face: extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image; and selecting, from a plurality of image tiles, a first image tile that matches the face of the corresponding person in the first image in accordance with a predefined correspondence between the set of profile parameters of the corresponding person and a set of pre-stored description parameters of the first image tile; generating a second image by covering the faces of respective persons in the first image with their corresponding first image tiles; and sharing the first image and the second image in a predefined order via a group chat session.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first image and the second image are displayed in the group chat session one image at a time such that one of the two images is replaced by the other of the two images periodically.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image includes: determining one or more descriptive labels corresponding to the identified face of the corresponding person using a first machine learning model, wherein the first machine learning model is trained with the facial images and corresponding descriptive labels.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image includes: determining an identity of the corresponding person based on the identified face of the corresponding person; locating respective profile information of the first person based on the determined identity of the corresponding person; and using one or more characteristics in the respective profile information of the first person as the set of profile parameters corresponding to the identified face of the corresponding person.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a first one of the first image tiles is a dynamic image tile and at least a second one of the first image tiles is a static image tile.
6. The method of claim 1, including: receiving a plurality of user comments from different users of the group chat session, each user comment including a descriptive term for a respective person identified in the first image; choosing a descriptive label for the respective person according to the plurality of user comments; and updating the second image by adding the descriptive label adjacent to the first image tile of the respective person.
7. A computing device for image information processing, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processors to perform a plurality of operations comprising: identifying, using face recognition, one or more faces, each face corresponding to a respective person captured in a first image; for each identified face: extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image; and selecting, from a plurality of image tiles, a first image tile that matches the face of the corresponding person in the first image in accordance with a predefined correspondence between the set of profile parameters of the corresponding person and a set of pre-stored description parameters of the first image tile; generating a second image by covering the faces of respective persons in the first image with their corresponding first image tiles; and sharing the first image and the second image in a predefined order via a group chat session.
8. The computing device of claim 7, wherein the first image and the second image are displayed in the group chat session one image at a time such that one of the two images is replaced by the other of the two images periodically.
9. The computing device of claim 7, wherein extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image includes: determining one or more descriptive labels corresponding to the identified face of the corresponding person using a first machine learning model, wherein the first machine learning model is trained with the facial images and corresponding descriptive labels.
10. The computing device of claim 7, wherein extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image includes: determining an identity of the corresponding person based on the identified face of the corresponding person; locating respective profile information of the first person based on the determined identity of the corresponding person; and using one or more characteristics in the respective profile information of the first person as the set of profile parameters corresponding to the identified face of the corresponding person.
11. The computing device of claim 7, wherein at least a first one of the first image tiles is a dynamic image tile and at least a second one of the first image tiles is a static image tile.
12. The computing device of claim 7, wherein the plurality of operations further include: receiving a plurality of user comments from different users of the group chat session, each user comment including a descriptive term for a respective person identified in the first image; choosing a descriptive label for the respective person according to the plurality of user comments; and updating the second image by adding the descriptive label adjacent to the first image tile of the respective person.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions which, when executed by a computing device having one or more processors, cause the computing device to perform a plurality of operations comprising: identifying, using face recognition, one or more faces, each face corresponding to a respective person captured in a first image; for each identified face: extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image; and selecting, from a plurality of image tiles, a first image tile that matches the face of the corresponding person in the first image in accordance with a predefined correspondence between the set of profile parameters of the corresponding person and a set of pre-stored description parameters of the first image tile; generating a second image by covering the faces of respective persons in the first image with their corresponding first image tiles; and sharing the first image and the second image in a predefined order via a group chat session.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the first image and the second image are displayed in the group chat session one image at a time such that one of the two images is replaced by the other of the two images periodically.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image includes: determining one or more descriptive labels corresponding to the identified face of the corresponding person using a first machine learning model, wherein the first machine learning model is trained with the facial images and corresponding descriptive labels.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein extracting a set of profile parameters of a corresponding person in the first image includes: determining an identity of the corresponding person based on the identified face of the corresponding person; locating respective profile information of the first person based on the determined identity of the corresponding person; and using one or more characteristics in the respective profile information of the first person as the set of profile parameters corresponding to the identified face of the corresponding person.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein at least a first one of the first image tiles is a dynamic image tile and at least a second one of the first image tiles is a static image tile.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the plurality of operations further include: receiving a plurality of user comments from different users of the group chat session, each user comment including a descriptive term for a respective person identified in the first image; choosing a descriptive label for the respective person according to the plurality of user comments; and updating the second image by adding the descriptive label adjacent to the first image tile of the respective person.
</claims>
</document>
