<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/02,A61B5/16,H04L29/08,H04W4/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHAMIR OPTICAL INDUSTRY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANTER, AMNON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72238452
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A SYSTEM AND A METHOD FOR ALERTING ON VISION IMPAIRMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention discloses a technique for alerting on vision impairment. The system comprises a processing unit configured and operable for receiving scene data being indicative of a scene of at least one consumer in an environment, identifying in the scene data a certain consumer, identifying an event being indicative of a behavioral compensation for vision impairment, and, upon identification of such an event, sending a notification relating to the vision impairment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for alerting on vision impairment, said system comprising a processing unit configured and operable for receiving scene data being indicative of a scene of at least one consumer in an environment, identifying in the scene data a certain consumer, identifying an event being indicative of a behavioral compensation for vision impairment, and, upon identification of such an event, sending a notification relating to the vision impairment.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one sensing unit configured and operable for detecting the scene data.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein said at least one sensing unit comprises at least one of: at least one imaging unit configured and operable for capturing at least one image of at least a portion of a consumer's body, at least one motion detector configured and operable for detecting consumer data being indicative of a motion of a consumer, or at least one eye tracker configured and operable for tracking eye motion of a consumer. 4. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one imaging unit comprises a plurality of cameras placed at different heights.
5. The system of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein said sensing unit is accommodated in an optical or digital eyewear frame display.
6. The system of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein said processing unit is configured and operable for identifying a consumer's condition, said consumer's condition comprising consumer data being indicative of the consumer's position and location relative to at least one object in the consumer's environment; said consumer data comprises at least one of a consumer's face, eyewear, posture, position, sound or motion.
7. The system of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein said event comprises at least one position and orientation of head increase or decrease of viewing distance between the consumer and viewed object and changing the position of eyeglasses worn by the consumer.
8. The system of any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein said event is identified by identifying images having an image feature being indicative of behavioral compensation, performing a Bruckner test, performing a Hirschberg test, and measuring blink count/ frequency.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the image feature being indicative of behavioral compensation comprises squinting, head orientation, certain distances between an object and consumer's eyes, certain position of eyeglasses on the consumer's face, strabismus, cataracts, and reflections from the eye.
10. The system of any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the notification includes at least one of the data indicative of the identified event, data indicative of the identified consumer, ophthalmologic recommendations based on the identified event, or lack of events, or an appointment for a vision test.
11. The system of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein said processing unit comprises a memory for storing at least one of a reference data indicative of behavioral compensation for vision impairment, data indicative of the notification, or data indicative of a follow-up of the notification.
12. The system of claim 11 , wherein said processing unit is configured for at least one of identifying the event upon comparison between the detected data and the reference data or determining a probability for a vision impairment of the consumer based on the comparison.
13. The system of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein said processing unit comprises a communication interface being configured for sending the notification to at least one of the identified consumer or a third party.
14. The system of any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein said processing unit is configured for providing a frame recommendation.
15. The system of any one of claims 11 to 14, wherein said memory is configured for storing a database including a multiplicity of data sets related to a plurality of spectacle frame models and sizes.
16. The system according to claim 14 or 15, wherein said processing unit is configured and operable to correlate between frames parameters and ophthalmic prescriptions.
17. The system according to any of claims 14 to 16, wherein said processing unit is configured and operable to correlate between frames parameters and facial features.
18. The system according to any of claims 14 to 17, wherein said processing unit is configured and operable to correlate between frames parameters and eyewear preferences.
19. The system according to any of claims 14 to 18, comprising a server and at least one computer entity linked to the server via a network, wherein said network is configured to receive and respond to requests sent across the network; transmitting one or more modules of computer executable program instructions and displayable data to the network connected user computer platform in response to a request, wherein said modules include modules configured to: receive and transmit image information, transmitting a frame recommendation and an optical lens option recommendation based on received image information, for display by the network connected user computer platform.
20. A computer program instructions stored in the local storage that, when executed by a processing unit, cause the processing unit to: receive data being indicative of a scene of at least one consumer in an environment, identify in the data a certain consumer, identify an event being indicative of a behavioral compensation for vision impairment, and, upon identification of such an event, send a notification relating to the vision impairment.
21. A computer program product stored on a tangible computer readable medium, comprising: a library of software modules which cause a computer executing them to prompt for information pertinent to at least one of an eyeglasses recommendation and an optical lens option recommendation, to store said information or to display eyewear recommendations .
22. The computer program product of claim 21 , wherein said library further comprises a module for frame selection, point of sales and advertising.
23. A computer platform for facilitating eye glasses marketing or selection, comprising: a camera; a processor configured to execute computer program instructions to cause the processor to take an image of a consumer, identify in the image a certain consumer, identify an event being indicative of a behavioral compensation for vision impairment, and, upon identification of such an event, sending a notification relating to the vision impairment; local storage for processor executable instructions for carrying out storage of information.
24. A method for alerting on vision impairment; said method comprising:
identifying a certain individual in scene data being indicative of a scene of at least one consumer in an environment;
identifying an event being indicative of a behavioral compensation for vision impairment; and
upon identification of such an event, sending a notification on the vision impairment. 25. The method of claim 24, further comprising detecting data being indicative of a scene of at least one consumer in a retail environment.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein detecting the data being indicative of at least one consumer comprises at least one of capturing at least one image of at least one consumer, detecting data being indicative of a motion of a consumer, or tracking an eye motion of a consumer.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein capturing at least one image of at least one consumer comprises continuously recording a scene.
28. The method of any one of claims 24 to 27, further comprising identifying, in the data, the consumer' s condition including data being indicative of the consumer's position and location relative to the consumer's environment; said data comprising at least one of the consumer's face, posture, position, sound or motion.
29. The method of any one of claims 26 to 28, wherein said event comprises at least one of position and orientation of head, increase or decrease of viewing distance between the consumer and viewed object, or changing the position of eyeglasses worn by the consumer.
30. The method of any one of claims 26 to 29, wherein identifying of the event comprises identifying images having an image feature being indicative of behavioral compensation, performing a Bruckner test, performing a Hirschberg test, and measuring blink count/frequency.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the image feature being indicative of behavioral compensation comprises squinting, head orientation, certain distances between an object and a consumer's eyes, certain position of eyeglasses on the consumer's face, strabismus, cataracts, and reflections from the eye.
32. The method of any one of claims 27 to 31, wherein identifying in the at least one image a consumer in a retail environment, comprising at least one of receiving data characterizing the retail environment, or performing face recognition.
33. The method of any one of claims 24 to 32, wherein sending a notification comprising sending the notification to at least one of the identified consumer or a third party.
34. The method of any one of claims 24 to 33, wherein the notification includes at least one of the data indicative of the identified event, data indicative of the identified consumer, ophthalmologic recommendations based on the identified event, or lack of events, and an appointment for a vision test.
35. The method of any one of claims 24 to 34, further comprising storing at least one of a reference data indicative of behavioral compensation for vision impairment, data indicative of the notification, or data indicative of a follow-up of the notification.
36. The method of claim 35, further comprising identifying the event upon comparison between the detected data and the reference data and determining a probability for a vision impairment of the consumer, based on the comparison.
37. A computer program intended to be stored in a memory of a processor unit of a computer system, or in a removable memory medium adapted to cooperate with a reader of the processor unit, comprising instructions for implementing the method according to any of claims 24 to 36.
</claims>
</document>
